Viewership for the telecast of this year’s Oscars ceremony was down 7% from 2024, according to figures from Nielsen.

After three consecutive years of growth, viewership slipped to just over 18m in the US, across network ABC and the Oscars’ new online partner, Hulu – whose stream was dogged by problems.

The ratings – which have been in steep decline for almost a decade thanks to the advent of the internet – usually correlate pretty closely to the mainstream appeal of those films tipped to win the big awards.

In 1998, a record 57m tuned in to see Titanic take 11 prizes; by 2004, that had fallen to 44m, when Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King equalled that tally.

The Oscars recorded their worst-ever ratings in 2021, when Nomadland won big; last year the number had recovered to 19.5m, thanks to the Barbenheimer effect.

ABC is reporting more than a quarter of its viewers were under 50, and some 3.2m were 18-49 – a younger demographic the Academy is especially keen to court.

This year’s show opened with an extended medley of hits from Wicked, one of the two blockbusters up for best picture, sung by its Oscar-nominated stars, Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande.
Adrien Brody has broken the record for the longest ever Oscars acceptance speech.

The 51-year-old, who picked up his second best actor Oscar on Sunday, spoke for five minutes and 40 seconds, beating Greer Garson, who spoke for five minutes and 30 seconds when she accepted for Mrs Miniver in 1943.

Kieran Culkin accepts the award for best performance by an actor in a supporting role for "A Real Pain" during the Oscars on Sunday, March 2, 2025, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles. (AP Photo/Chris Pizzello)
Key takeaways from Oscars 2025: Brody beats orchestra, Brits keep it classy and Kieran Culkin botches his big moment
Read more
Brody beat out competition from A Complete Unknown’s Timothée Chalamet and Conclave’s Ralph Fiennes to win for his role in low-budget drama The Brutalist, this year’s longest best picture nominee at 215 minutes.

“I feel so fortunate,” he said on stage after spitting out his gum and throwing it to partner Georgina Chapman, ex-wife of Harvey Weinstein. “Acting is a very fragile profession. It looks very glamorous and in certain moments it is, but the one thing that I’ve gained having the privilege to come back here is to have some perspective. No matter where you are in your career, no matter what you’ve accomplished, it can all go away.”
Brody, who previously won for his performance in Roman Polanski’s The Pianist, spoke for so long that the wrap-up music started to kick in. “I’m wrapping up, please turn the music off,” Brody said. “I’ve done this before. Thank you. It’s not my first rodeo, but I will be brief.”
He went on to talk about the important themes of the film which, like The Pianist, also deals with the Holocaust. “I’m here once again to represent the lingering traumas and the repercussions of war and systematic oppression, and of antisemitism and racism and othering,” he said. “I pray for a healthier and a happier and a more inclusive world, and I believe if the past can teach us anything, it’s a reminder to not let hate go unchecked.”

Earlier in the evening, Halle Berry kissed Brody on the red carpet to recreate the controversial moment on stage 22 years ago when he kissed her. “I had to pay him back,” she said.

The Brutalist won two other Oscars last night for cinematography and original score yet the night was dominated by wins for sex worker comedy Anora taking home five awards, including best picture.
Two of the biggest pop stars of the last 15 years could be recognised in the best supporting actress category. Ariana Grande is a dead-cert for her performance in Wicked as Glinda, the Good Witch of the North.

Another possible (but less certain) nominee is Selena Gomez for her role in Spanish-language musical Emilia Pérez as the wife of a Mexican drug lord who changes gender.

Her co-star Zoe Saldaña is the current frontrunner to win the category. She took home the Golden Globe earlier this month and has a lot of goodwill from voters because of her roles in box office smashes such as the Avatar and Marvel films.

But it's a crowded category, with Felicity Jones (The Brutalist), Isabella Rossellini (Conclave), Monica Barbaro (A Complete Unknown) and Jamie Lee Curtis (The Last Showgirl) also in the running.

Danielle Deadwyler (The Piano Lesson), Margaret Qualley (The Substance) and Aunjanue Ellis-Taylor (Nickel Boys) could also show up. This category is particularly hard to predict due to different actresses being nominated at different precursor events.
Jolie, Moore, Anderson and Jean-Baptiste may have comeback narratives, but they are competing in a particularly crowded lead actress category this year.

Other frontrunners include Mikey Madison (Anora) for her barnstorming performance as a New York stripper who falls for the son of a wealthy Russian.

She could be joined by Cynthia Erivo (Wicked) for her role as the Wizard of Oz character Elphaba, the Wicked Witch of the West. The British actress is an Oscar win away from achieving EGOT status.

Golden Globe winner Fernanda Torres (I'm Still Here) could make it in for her understated portrayal of a Brazilian woman who investigates the disappearance of her congressman husband.

Karla Sofía Gascón (Emilia Pérez) is also likely to be recognised for playing a Mexican cartel leader who leaves the world of crime to live a new life as a trans woman.

Gascón would become the first trans person to be nominated in an acting category. There is one caveat - Elliot Page was nominated for Juno in 2008, but that was more than a decade before the actor transitioned.
Established directors such as Steven Spielberg, Martin Scorsese, Quentin Tarantino and Paul Thomas Anderson often tend to populate this category, understandably cropping up at the Oscars again and again.

This year, however, all of the major contenders for best director would be first-time Oscar nominees.

Brady Corbet (The Brutalist), Edward Berger (Conclave), Jacques Audiard (Emilia Pérez) and Sean Baker (Anora) are all likely to be recognised.

They could be joined by Coralie Fargeat (The Substance), RaMell Ross (Nickel Boys) and James Mangold (A Complete Unknown).

Even the less likely contenders, such as Jon M Chu (Wicked), Denis Villeneuve (Dune: Part Two), Mohammad Rasoulof (The Seed of the Sacred Fig) and Payal Kapadia (All We Imagine As Light), would be first-time nominees in the category.
We may not have Barbie this year, but there are plenty of other blockbusters which could show up at the Oscars.

Box office smashes in 2024 included Wicked, which almost certainly will be nominated for best picture, and Gladiator II, which almost certainly won't be.

Other sequels which cleaned up financially include Dune: Part Two, the second instalment of the sandy sci-fi adaptation, which is likely to be nominated for best picture as well as several technical prizes.

Elsewhere, Inside Out 2, the highest-grossing film of last year, will likely make the best animated film category, alongside the popular The Wild Robot.

But box office takings aren't everything. Both animated films could be beaten by a much smaller contender, the charming Latvian film Flow, about a cat who must work with other animals to survive after a flood, which won the Golden Globe.
Often with the Oscars, there is a clear best picture winner which steamrolls its way through awards season, such as Oppenheimer in 2024. This year, however, is wide open.

Different films have been winning prizes at the various events which precede the Oscars. There are six contenders which feasibly could take the top prize, depending on how the next few weeks shake out.

The Brutalist and Emilia Pérez won the two top film awards at the Golden Globes, and both have a lot of passionate supporters.

Meanwhile, Conclave and Anora are widely liked and less divisive than some other contenders, and could therefore benefit from the preferential ballot system, where voters rank the nominated films in order of preference.

Less likely but still possible winners include A Complete Unknown, which had a particularly strong showing at the SAG nominations, and Wicked, which is likely to be heavily nominated and is one of the most successful films financially.
Ariana Grande has told the BBC that she channelled her personal feelings of loss when filming Wicked.

"Losing someone you love is something we've all unfortunately had to experience - and sometimes we have the privilege to say goodbye and sometimes we don't," she says.

Grande, 31, plays Galinda Upland in the film, which is an adaptation of the hugely successful stage musical exploring the Wizard of Oz universe from the perspective of two witches.

The two-time Grammy award winner has suffered personal tragedy in recent years, after the 2017 Manchester bombing of her concert and the death of her former partner Mac Miller a year later.
She says appearing in Wicked, one of the first Broadway shows she saw as a child, "feels like a homecoming".

"This music has always brought such comfort and now being able to spend time with it and be trusted with it is the privilege of a lifetime."

In the weeks running up to the film's release, the close relationship between Grande and co-star Cynthia Erivo has been in the spotlight.

"From the moment we were cast, Cynthia invited me over and we hung out for five hours and we laughed and we cried and got to know each other.

"We had a real conversation right off the bat about creating a safe space for each other and being honest with each other," she says.

Grande and Erivo's characters begin in the Oz universe as university students, before later becoming enemies as Glinda the Good Witch and Elphaba the Wicked Witch of the West.

Erivo, 37, has described her role as "a real honour" and nods to the foundations formed by the original stage actors Kristin Chenoweth and Idina Menzel, who she calls "the architects".

"We've been handed something really special and it's a dream come true and truly big shoes to fill," she adds.
Critics have so far given the film mixed reviews. The Guardian's Peter Bradshaw praised the "sugar-rush fantasy" and awarded four stars, describing Wicked as a "blast of entertainment power".

There was another four-star review from Empire's Helen O'Hara, who said director Jon M Chu "uses every bell and whistle possible to turn the stage show into a movie epic".

However, in a two-star review, the Telegraph's Robbie Collin described Wicked as "utterly exhausting and hopelessly miscast", adding that there was "no conceivable artistic argument" to have split the the Broadway show into two films.

The Independent's Clarisse Loughrey awarded three stars and questioned the way it was shot, with characters often "aggressively backlit".

"Jon M Chu treats his Oz as if it were as mundane as a city block," she added.

But Screen Daily's Fionnuala Halligan concluded: "It’s so doggedly faithful to the show, so emphatically orchestrated and so powered by Cynthia Erivo's exceptional performance, that resistance to its 169 minutes of theme park magic becomes futile."
Erivo, who received a best actress nomination at the Oscars for her portrayal of Harriet Tubman in the biopic Harriet in 2019, is also a decorated stage performer who received a Tony Award in 2016 for the Broadway adaptation of The Color Purple.

She says she was able to draw on her own experiences of struggling with acceptance for the role of Elphaba, who is outcast for her green exterior.

"Whether you feel 'other', or you feel different from everyone else, I think both of us have experience in those spaces that we have used to infuse our characters," she says.

Wicked, which first came to Broadway in 2003, has gone on to be the third-highest grossing theatre show in the world, behind The Lion King and The Phantom of the Opera.

Many have pinned its enduring success with audiences on the relatability of its content - from Elphaba's struggle with self-identity to Glinda's difficulty in making moral choices.
Its reimagining for the big screen also stars Oscar winner Michelle Yeoh as Madame Morrible and Game of Thrones' Peter Dinklage as the voice of Doctor Dillamond - who is an animated goat.

Oscar nominee Jeff Goldblum appears as the Wizard of Oz and British star Jonathan Bailey - who has received international recognition in recent years after starring in Netflix hit Bridgerton - as Fiyero.

Goldblum says the central themes of the film, which include embracing diversity, were important to the cast, who were able to "come together to work and appreciate each other with empathy, compassion and love".

Bailey also says everyone he worked with had their own "Elphaba story", adding "we have at points in our lives felt different".

He says: "In this film particularly, it's the superpower of individuality which becomes a power to harness.

"I think it's really important right now as well, this theme that there's more that unites us than divides us."
The musical has been a West End and Broadway institution for more than 20 years, but Chu says the central themes of the plot are more relevant than ever.

"Elphaba says something has changed within me, something's not the same - and that's the line that really got me into this movie, I felt like we all feel uneasy," he says.

Chu, who also directed Crazy Rich Asians in 2018, says he received the script for the film during the pandemic, which made him think about how the film could reflect his real-life experience of looking for truth in a confusing time.

He says the cast also made themselves "emotionally available" during filming and were able to put themselves personally in the shoes of their characters.

"Ariana, Cynthia and Jeff were talking about the real-world stakes of what we were putting into these characters," he adds.

"It wasn't just about global politics, it was more personal than that.

"We were all going through stuff in our own lives and I think they were generous to offer that up within the roles of Glinda, Elphaba and the Wizard."
There was an audible gasp from journalists in the winners' room when Mikey Madison was announced as the best actress winner.

Demi Moore was the favourite for much of this campaign. Things did shift after Madison's Bafta win, but the race remained incredibly tight.

In the end, it was Madison's night. It marked an incredible moment for a 25-year-old actress who was relatively unknown before her role in Anora.

This is exactly the type of rags-to-riches story that awards ceremonies love – and the film itself celebrates.

The sex workers at the heart of Anora
The film tells the story of sex worker Anora, who has a whirlwind ill-fated romance with the spoilt son of a Russian oligarch.

Edie Turquet, one of the young female dancers and strippers in the film, texted me to say it was "insane" that a film about sex workers could win best picture at the Oscars.

She added that she hoped it would "shift or at least challenge" perspectives of people towards her community.
We all knew it was coming but Cynthia Erivo and Ariana Grande belting out Wicked's anthem Defying Gravity was even better than we could have hoped for.

As Erivo, in a white gown, hit that final iconic note, the audience stood in applause.

The co-stars performed a medley of songs, including Somewhere Over the Rainbow, which Grande sang to open the show wearing a gorgeous red sequined dress.
Earlier in the night, Grande stunned on the red carpet with a champagne Schiaparelli gown, which leaned into her role as Glinda the Good Witch in the film.

"It's giving chandelier," one reporter said to me backstage.

On social media the big question was: "How is she going to sit down in that dress?"
On the red carpet, there was quite a moment when Halle Berry ran up to Adrien Brody and gave him a big kiss.

It recreated a moment at the 2003 Academy Awards, when Brody - having just won best actor for his performance in The Pianist - turned and kissed Berry, who had presented the award to him.

She told Variety: "I had to pay him back".

Speaking to Extra, she added that the only reason she did it was because Brody's girlfriend, Georgina Chapman, "was fine" with it.

The Oscars wrote on X with a clip of the kiss: "A reunion 22 years in the making"
Berry and Brody weren't the only two seen locking lips.

Inside the ceremony at the Dolby Theatre, lovebirds Kylie Jenner and Timothée Chalamet were photographed sharing a kiss and laughing together.

Reality star and makeup mogul Jenner was there to support her boyfriend who was up for best actor - but ended up losing out to... Brody.

Actor Adam Sandler was in on the ongoing jokes about his typically casual attire.

Early on in the night, host Conan O'Brien called him out, saying he was "dressed like a guy playing video poker at 2am".

(For reference, Sandler was in the audience wearing a blue hoodie and shorts, an ensemble that looked more at home on the basketball court).

Following a playful back and forth between the two, the actor walked into the aisle of the theatre and said he was "leaving" before going over to Timothée Chalamet and shouting his surname, in the way he previously did on Saturday Night Live.

Chalamet, ever good natured, laughed along.
This year's Oscars race has played out against the grim backdrop of devastating wildfires in Los Angeles, which killed 29 people.

The Grammys and Golden Globes both made the fires a central theme of the show.

The Academy Awards mentioned it only a handful of times, signalling Hollywood is moving on.

There was, however, one powerful moment, when O'Brien welcomed some of the firefighters who fought the blazes on stage. He called them "heroes", with the audience clapping and giving the emergency workers a standing ovation.

O'Brien then said there are some jokes that even he isn't brave enough to tell - and asked some of the firefighters to read them out instead.

LA Fire Captain Erik Scott read one joke off a teleprompter that said their hearts go out to everyone who lost their homes - including the makers of Joker 2.

It got a big laugh and O'Brien called it the best joke delivery of the night.It was Zoe Saldaña's first Oscar, winning best supporting actress for Emilia Pérez - a musical about a transgender Mexican drug lord - and it marked one of the most powerful and emotional speeches of the night.

She broke down in tears immediately, crying out "Mommy", to her mother in the audience.

"I am floored by this honour," she wept, paying tribute to her fellow nominees for their "loving and community", saying "I will pay it forward".

Praising the film's cast and crew, she got emotional as she talked about her family.

"Everything brave, outrageous and good I've ever done in my life is because of you," she said, praising her husband, his "beautiful hair" and their three sons.

"My grandmother came to this country in 1961 - I am a proud child of immigrant parents with dreams and dignity and hardworking hands.

"I'm the first American of Dominican origin to accept an Academy Award and I know I won't be the last.

"Getting an award where I got to sing and speak in Spanish - this is for my grandmother."The month-long saga to obtain a US visa by two Iranian filmmakers ended in the pair winning the best animated short film Academy Award - with them rushing to even make the ceremony in Hollywood.

Hossein Molayemi and Shirin Sohani arrived at Los Angeles airport just hours before the Oscars award ceremony was due to begin.

After their plane landed, they quickly changed outfits in a public restroom and made it with only moments to go before winning the award for their film, In the Shadow of the Cypress.

"It's not our fault we are so late," Sohani said to BBC News before the show. "We couldn't get a visa. It's a difficult relationship" between the US and Iran, she explained.

"Until yesterday we hadn't obtained our visa and now we are standing here with this statuette in our hands," said Molayemi in his acceptance speech.

"Speaking in front of this expectant audience is very hard for us," he added. "Yes, if we preserve and remain faithful, miracles will happen."
The fashion is almost as important as the films at the Oscars, and Hollywood's finest walked the red carpet in an array of eyecatching outfits before Sunday's ceremony in Los Angeles.They included Wicked star Cynthia Erivo, who wore a shade of her character Elphaba's green in an elaborate velvet ballgown.

Erivo missed out on the prize for best actress, but won the award for best nails.Co-star Ariana Grande, who was nominated for best supporting actress, wore a striking champagne Schiaparelli gown.

However, it was perhaps a little impractical - so she changed before performing to open the show with Erivo.Demi Moore radiated Hollywood style in her jewelled silver gown. She was nominated for best actress for The Substance.

Every year, Times writers, editors, photographers and videographers fan out at the Oscars to capture the scene inside the Dolby Theatre, and the 97th edition of the awards was no different. And whether you watched the show live or are just catching up, there was much to learn from Hollywood’s glitziest night.

Our team on the ground at the 2025 Oscars reflects on the night’s key moments, from the controversy that cast an awkward pall over the ceremony to the rise of awards-season influencers.The season’s biggest controversy hung over the show

The controversy that erupted in late January around the racist, Islamophobic tweets of lead actress nominee Karla Sofía Gascón didn’t just tank the film’s promising Oscar trajectory, it also proved to be the most uncomfortable thing about being at the Academy Awards this year.After Netflix pulled the plug on many of the “Emilia Pérez” nominee’s pre-awards appearances, it was announced that she would be at the show. How she would be received by the notoriously liberal Hollywood elite became a burning question. Once a favorite to win the lead actress statue, the first out transgender person to be nominated for the honor became the metaphorical elephant in the room at Sunday’s ceremony.
Host Conan O’Brien immediately broke the ice during his opening monologue when he cracked a joke at her expense that literally made the crowd grit its teeth and groan.

“‘Anora’ uses the F word 479 times,” O’Brien said. “That’s three more than the record set by Karla Sofía Gascón’s publicist: ‘You tweeted WHAT?’”

For the next three hours, every time her name was mentioned the crowd applauded politely, but without any real warmth. When she left her seat she was accompanied by a Netflix publicist, her agent from UTA and a private security guard. Nothing about her situation seemed comfortable.

It was a strange cultural moment to witness, particularly at a time when President Trump and his MAGA allies are berating the left for the type of cancel culture that wields its influence by stripping prestige and opportunity from those who give voice to “anti-woke” ideas such as those expressed in Gascón’s tweets. If Gascon were any other person — and not a trans woman whose identity is among those under attack from conservatives — one might have expected the MAGA world to rally around her cause.

On Oscar Sunday, this quandary left Gascón totally alone and desperately out of place — the kind of story you tend to see onscreen at the Dolby, not in the audience. — Jessica GeltSean Baker made history with four wins for “Anora.” Mikey Madison, star of the independent film, won for actress in a leading role. And neither neglected to thank the story’s subject — sex workers.

Baker has always had a knack for telling stories about this marginalized community: Hailey in “The Florida Project” turns to sex work, Sin-Dee Rella in “Tangerine” relies on the profession, and “Starlet” features adult film workers. Drawing so much inspiration from their world, his films assume a raw portrayal of many individuals’ reality — without ever feeling exploitative. In his acceptance speech for original screenplay on Sunday he said, “They have shared their stories, they have shared their life experiences with me over the years. My deepest respect, thank you. I share this with you.”

As Baker’s indie films enter the mainstream with “Anora,” his storytelling maintains an authenticity by keeping its inspiration close.

Madison, who has shared previously that her research process for the role involved hanging out in strip clubs and getting dances, also thanked the community from Hollywood’s biggest stage.

“I also just want to again recognize and honor the sex worker community. I will continue to support and be an ally,” said Madison. “All of the incredible people, the women that I’ve had the privilege of meeting from that community has been one of the highlights of this entire incredible experience.” — Cerys Davies
The Oscars are still ‘electric,’ especially for ‘The Brutalist’ producers

I’ve been in the audience at the Oscars three times, but never before have I sat in a cheering section for a particular nominated film. This year, however, I was lucky enough to be seated on the main floor in the midst of a bunch of producers for “The Brutalist,” which was nominated for 10 awards and ultimately won three, including cinematography, original score and lead actor.The crew of at least a dozen people were on the edge of their seats the whole show, spreading a sense of suspense, joy and anticipation throughout the telecast. I got sucked in and kept grabbing the arm of executive producer Carter Stanton — who was sitting directly next to me — every time a category came up that included “The Brutalist.”

“It’s electric, honestly,” Stanton told me of his first trip to the Academy Awards. “We’ve been all over the world with this movie, and to be here at the Oscars on the biggest stage is next level.”

When Lol Crawley won for cinematography, Stanton and his friends launched out of their seats, clearly elated. When Brody won for his portrayal of the tragically heroic architect László Tóth, the group went wild, shouting and cheering and hugging one another.

The tension was thick before best picture was announced, and the letdown was real when “The Brutalist” didn’t win, but the team still stood and cheered for “Anora.”

The show was over, but the night was just getting started. What did Stanton and the other producers plan on doing next?

“Celebrate, dance, hug everybody that worked so hard on this movie,” he said. “And encourage everybody to keep making independent films.” —Jessica GeltKieran Culkin has now announced twice on a national stage that part of his motivation for winning awards statues is to help convince his wife to have more kids.

The campaign started last year, when the actor announced that his wife, Jazz Charton, had said they could “maybe” have a third child if he won an Emmy. Fourteen months later, the couple are still parents to two children. But after winning the supporting actor prize for his role in “A Real Pain” on Sunday, Culkin doubled down on his quest for a larger brood from the Oscars stage.

“Really, I want four,” Culkin said he told his wife post-Emmys. She apparently told him she’d be game if he won an Oscar, leading him to end his Oscar speech by urging her: “Let’s get cracking on those kids. What do you say?”

An hour later, the pair rushed out of the Dolby ballroom in search of a restroom. Charton entered the single stall first, with her husband clutching her purse while he waited for her.

So how did the speech go over with her?

“I’m still taking the temperature,” Culkin admitted.

After Charton emerged from the restroom, she clarified her feelings: “The more he keeps asking me, the less I will,” she said with a smile. “I’m used to it by now. My uterus is public domain. It’s just a running joke between us.”

Emma Stone, who produced “A Real Pain,” is apparently equally familiar with the 42-year-old’s sometimes frustrating quirks.By the lobby bar, she told songwriter Jack Antonoff how the actor had attempted to drop out of the film two weeks prior to shooting. Stone — who actually dated Culkin when they were in their 20s — had to board an international flight with him and his family to make sure he made it to set in Poland.

“I’m so proud of him,” she told Antonoff. “He’s such a little s—.” — Amy KaufmanThe press room at the Loews Hotel next door to the Dolby Theatre was packed with around 175 reporters hunched over their laptops as winners were ushered in to answer just a handful of questions. Journalists from over 40 different countries were among the ranks, but none had a more celebratory evening than those from Latvia and Brazil.

When “Flow,” a wordless Latvian film about a cat’s journey after a monstrous flood, was announced as the winner of the animated feature category, screams filled the room. The movie’s win marked the first Oscar for the country, and the Latvian reporters in the room made sure to celebrate.

Later in the show, “I’m Still Here” won the award for international feature and Brazilian reporters similarly jumped up and cheered at the news (and director Walter Salles’ mention of the movie’s star, Fernanda Torres). It’s the first Brazilian movie to win the award. When the winners for each respective film came back to the interview room, they were asked questions in their native tongues. All of this joy and international attention points towards the Academy’s increased focus on uplifting global films and stories — even beyond the designated international category.

The director of “Flow,” Gints Zilbalodis, summed up the celebratory energy of both the international and American press in the room perfectly in his post-win interview: “It’s kind of a universal language that we can all understand. Cinema is a language.” — Kaitlyn HuamaniYang, who helped present the award for costume design as the only presenter (of five) dressed in his on-screen costume from “Wicked,” was “happy to be the joke” at the Oscars on Sunday. (It probably didn’t hurt that “Wicked’s” Paul Tazewell took top honors.)

In the lobby at the Dolby, he and co-host of their podcast “Las Culturistas” Matt Rogers were reminded of how the Oscars have shaped their own pursuit of comedy.

“For us, it was the 1998 Oscars, where ‘Titanic’ was nominated. That was the first year that I was obsessed with Kate Winslet’s look and the storyline was about how Leo [DiCaprio] didn’t show up,” said Yang. “It was the convergence of all these things that we loved. I just remember being that kid and thinking, ‘One day, I’ll do a bit on the Oscars.”

