Curry So Simple Even a Beginner Can Make It
I am Indian, and traditional Indian cooking was a big part of my upbringing. I only realized how much I enjoy cooking once I moved out of my parents' house and moved away to study. Unlike some students, I hate fast food and love to cook fresh meals every day.


A few months before leaving, I asked my mother to teach me a few traditional Indian recipes to get me started. The recipe below is one that she gave me. Like the others, it was passed from generation to generation and has not changed.

In my family's Hindu tradition, we do not eat meat, so the recipe below is vegetarian (but you can, of course, add any meat you choose to this dish). If you would like to prepare a traditional Indian dish, read on!


Turmeric, cumin, and other spices
Turmeric, cumin, and other spices

Recommended
easy-indian-style-chicken-curry-recipe
How to Make Indian-Style Chicken Curry
A Note About Spices
You will notice that I have not included exact quantities for the spices, ginger, or chillies in the ingredients list. This is because Indian cooking is very much based on taste. Start with a small quantity and taste the sauce as it simmers to see if it tastes sufficiently spiced to you.

Cook Time
Cook time	Ready in	Yields
1 hour 30 min

1 hour 30 min

Four servings

Ingredients for vegetarian Indian curry
Ingredients for vegetarian Indian curry

Image created with Canva Pro

Ingredients
2 large onions, diced
4 or 5 medium-sized fresh garlic cloves
Fresh ginger
Fresh chillies
4 or 5 cloves
Star anise, whole
2 cans peeled plum tomatoes
Garam masala
Ground coriander
Ground cumin
Turmeric powder
2 or 3 bay leaves
Fresh lemon
A few sticks whole cinnamon
Vegetable oil

Instructions
Start off by peeling and finely dicing the two onions. A tip to avoid tears: Slice the onion in half length-wise, leaving the root uncut. Chop off an inch or so opposite the root. This should prevent the aroma from stinging your eyes. Finely dice the onions.
As an Indian, I love hot food. If you prefer your food mild, use 2 or 3 small red or green chillies. Note that the smaller the chillies, the hotter they are. Peel and slightly dice chillies. To decide how much ginger to use, place the ginger root next to the garlic and use slightly more ginger than garlic. Peel the garlic and cut into small chunks. Peel and slightly dice the whole chillies. Place garlic, ginger, and chillies into a blender and mix into a smooth paste.
Drizzle 2 or 3 tablespoons of vegetable oil into a pot with cloves, whole star anise, bay leaves, and cinnamon. Once the cloves begin to lightly crackle, your oil is hot enough to fry the onions. Carefully place onions into the oil and wait for them to brown. The darker the onions are (as long as they are not burned!), the darker your curry will be. A darker curry is more authentic.
Once the onions are ready, turn the heat way down and add 1 or 2 teaspoons of garlic, ginger, and chilli paste. Allow this to fry together.
If you are cooking this dish with meat, dice the meat to the desired size and add it to the pot. Now add the rest of the garlic paste and lightly fry for 5 to 6 minutes at high heat, stirring frequently.
Notice the gorgeous smells that are filling your kitchen. Now it's time to add the tomatoes. You can use fresh if you like, but canned tomatoes are much easier.
Add the spices. Begin with the coriander and stir the sauce after adding each spice. About 2 or 3 small teaspoons will be enough. Next add 3 or 4 teaspoons of garam masala, 2 or 3 teaspoons of cumin, and about 3 teaspoons of turmeric. Remember to stir between each additional spice.
Cover the pot so that a small gap remains, and allow the sauce to simmer for 60 to 90 minutes on low heat.
Squeeze on some fresh lemon juice according to taste and serve with rice, chapatis, or naan bread.

Serve and Enjoy!
I hope you enjoy the preparation, smells, colours, and tastes of this truly authentic Indian dish!

Karaage Chicken is one of the most popular Japanese dishes not only within Japan but abroad as well. The chicken is marinated with soy sauce, sake, ginger, and mirin to give a touch of sweetness.

I originally posted this recipe in September 2016 and updated in 2018 with a recipe video. Now I’ve improved the video as well as the contents.

Hero shot of Karaage Chicken.

This is a little-known secret outside of Japan, but the chicken pieces are deep fried twice to make them crunchy on the outside and juicy inside!

Karaage Chicken is my children’s long standing no. 1 favourite dish within my repertoire. Whenever I declare that I will cook a Japanese meal for them, Karaage Chicken comes up first.

About Karaage
Some people might be thinking that karaage is Japanese-style fried chicken. But this is not correct. The word ‘karaage‘ (唐揚げ) is a generic term for deep fried food coated with or without flour. You don’t have to use chicken.

So Karaage chicken is ‘tori no karaage‘ (鶏の唐揚げ, fried chicken) in Japanese, qualifying that it is chicken (tori, 鶏).

Zoomed-in photo of Karaage chicken.

Karaage originally meant deep fried meat or fish without any marinating. The cooking method of pre-marinating ingredients came from China in the early Edo period. At the time, Japanese people called China ‘tou’ (唐), but this kanji character can also read ‘kara‘, particularly when combined with other characters. Hence the word 唐揚げ became ‘karaage’  instead of ‘touage‘.

If you marinate the meat/fish with some flavourings such as soy sauce before coating with cornflour, the dish becomes ‘tatsuta age’ (竜田揚げ). You can see the tatsuta age recipe using mackerel here.

Zoomed-in photo of Mackerel Tatsuta Age.
Mackerel Tatsuta Age

As explained in the post Mackerel Tatsuta Age, only if the fish/meat is flavoured and coated with corn flour before deep-frying, it is called Tatsuta Age.

On the other hand, the definition of Karaage is rather vague. You can deep fry fish/meat with or without flavouring, and you don’t have to coat the ingredient with flour. The flour can be any kind of flour.

People often call Japanese-style fried chicken Karaage because chicken is the most popular Karaage ingredient.

What’s in My Japanese Fried chicken (Karaage Chicken)
There aren’t many ingredients involved in making Karaage Chicken. The marinade is made up of typical Japanese pantry items.

Chicken thigh fillets cut into large bite-size pieces
Corn flour/cornstarch
Vegetable oil for deep-frying
Ingredients for Karaage Chicken.

I sometimes use thigh fillets with skin on, but sometimes I use skinless fillets (as seen in the video). Instead of thigh fillets, you can use breast fillets, but the cooked chicken will be a little bit dry.

I used corn flour/cornstarch to coat the chicken pieces this time, but I often use plain flour instead. You could also use equal parts corn flour and plain flour. I find that corn flour makes the coating lighter when deep fried.

Marinade
Soy sauce
Cooking sake
Mirin
Freshly grated ginger, including juice
There are so many variations to the marinade. Some recipes don’t add mirin. The younger generations appear to like the marinade with garlic added, making the flavour closer to the Chinese version. I like it without garlic to keep the authentic Japanese flavour. And that’s the Karaage Chicken flavour that I remember.

How to Make Japanese Fried chicken (Karaage Chicken)
My karaage chicken is marinated before frying.

Step-by-step photo of how to make Karaage Chicken.

Cut the fillets into large bite size pieces – about 5cm x 4cm / 2″ x 1½”.
Put the chicken pieces and the Marinade ingredients in a ziplock bag, and massage well to coat every piece of meat with the marinade.
Marinate for 30 minutes to 1 hour.
Pat-dry the chicken pieces.
Coat the chicken pieces with corn flour/cornstarch.
Deep-fry the chicken pieces at 160°C/320°F.
Rest the fried chicken for 3-4 minutes, then deep-fry at 190-200°C/374-392°F.
The temperature of the oil is critical. If the temperature of the oil in step 6 is too high, your chicken pieces become dark brown while inside of the chicken is still raw. If the temperature of the oil in step 7 is too low, you will end up with oily Karaage Chicken.

If you have a kitchen thermometer, that will be great. If you don’t, dip a pair of bamboo chopsticks in the oil and check the approximate temperature. If tiny bubbles are quietly forming around the chopsticks, then it is about 160-165°C/320-329°F, if larger bubbles are quickly rising, it is 180-190°C/356-374°F. You might find it difficult to see the difference in the comparison photo below, but hopefully you can see larger bubbles are coming up in the right photo.

Showing how to check the oil temperature using long bamboo chopsticks.
Oil temperature at around 160-165°C/320-329°F (left) and 180-190°C/356-374°F (right).

Secret to Crispy Karaage Chicken
The secret to great Karaage Chicken with crunchy outside and juicy inside is the double-frying.

Cook the chicken pieces by deep frying them at a lower temperature (about 160-165°C/320-329°F). The objective of this step is to cook the chicken to just before fully cooked without browning the surface too much.
Rest for 3-4 minutes during which the residual heat cooks the chicken through.
Deep fry the chicken pieces for the second time at about 190-200°C/374-392°F to make the outside of the chicken crunchy. This step is necessary because the first frying will make soggy fried chicken due to the lower temperature.
Frying twice as above ensures that the outside of the Karaage Chicken is crunchy and golden brown while the inside is juicy.

Zoomed-in photo of Karaage Chicken.
Yes, you need to do deep-frying (some people don’t seem to like it), but it is worth the effort.This Butter Chicken Recipe is so easy and so delicious. It’s the perfect weeknight meal. Better than take out, you’ll love making this Indian Butter Chicken at home!

bowl of indian butter chicken recipe with rice and cilantro
Save this recipe
Enter your email address and we'll send it straight to your inbox.
Email Address
 
PIN THIS RECIPE FOR LATER!
MY LATEST VIDEOS
Ad ends in 7


We are such huge fans of Indian cooking around here, the flavors and spices are always so perfect. Nathan and I love getting chicken dishes, especially the ones where the chicken is tender and come with a lot of sauce that we can eat with rice and warm pieces of naan. The saucier the recipe, the better.

This take on Indian Butter Chicken is an absolute favorite in our house. Every single person in my family loves it and it is on the menu at least twice every month. That’s truly saying something for a mom that is regularly developing new recipes for work.

While this recipe may vary a little from traditional butter chicken, I am certain it will become a favorite in your house as well.

READER REVIEW
“This recipe has become a go to for my family! My husband loves requesting it. It’s super easy to make and delicious so thank you!”


overhead view of pan of butter chicken recipe with rice and cilantro 
How to Make Butter Chicken
This is a brief overview of how to make this delicious recipe. For the full recipe see the recipe card at the bottom of the post.

Sauté the onions in oil. One of the keys to this recipe is to really let the onions cook down first before you add anything else. Allowing them to cook down first prevents the chicken from over cooking and the garlic from burning.
Melt in the butter. After the butter is melted, add in the garlic and ginger and cook until just fragrant.
Add in the chicken. These bite sized pieces of chicken will only need a minute or two. You want them to just cook on the outside but there is no need to cook them all the way through as they will finish cooking with the sauce.
Season the dish. Now add in the garam masala, chili powder, salt and black pepper.
Make the sauce. Stir in tomato puree, tomato paste, lemon juice, yogurt and half and half. Allow the sauce to simmer, cooking down for 10 minutes. There will still be lots of sauce left perfect for covering rice and dipping naan.
overhead view of a bowl of easy butter chicken with rice and cilantro
Butter Chicken Without Cream
A lot of Butter Chicken recipes call for cream, but I opted out in this version. Instead I used yogurt and half and half, which give you the nice creaminess you are looking for without the heavy cream.

Half and Half
Half and half is a product sold in the United States that is literally just half heavy cream and half whole milk. If you are making this outside of the U.S. you can substitute the 1 cup half and half with 1/2 a cup heavy cream and 1/2 a cup whole milk.

chicken butter masala recipe in a bowl with rice and naan
Garam Masala
Garam masala is a spice blend that is used in a lot of traditional Indian cooking. It gives the recipe a little bit of a kick and a delicious signature flavor that really can’t be found using anything else. It’s a spice blend, the same way that Italian Seasoning is a blend of spices. The spices used vary from brand to brand but often contain the following:

Black Pepper
Bay Leaves
Nutmeg
Cumin
Pimento
Cloves
Black Cardamom
Coriander

How to Serve Butter Chicken
We love this served over basmati rice. The recipe creates a decent amount of sauce, which we love, that makes each bite of rice delectable. We like to serve this with a side of naan bread and we garnish it with a bit of cilantro.

Storing Leftovers
Leftover butter chicken can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to five days. I like to store it separate from the rice it is served with. Be sure to only reheat the food that you plan on eat.

Because of the dairy in this recipe, this isn’t a dish I would recommend for the freezer. As with all recipes, use your best discretion when it comes to leftovers.

FAQ
What can I use instead of garam masala?
I would really encourage you to go out and buy some Garam Masala for this recipe. Without it, the dish won’t have the same flavor.

Is butter chicken spicy?
I don’t think this dish is spicy, but as written my kids find it has a bit of a kick. Surprisingly, it is the black pepper that makes this dish a bit spicy. If you are making this for picky eaters, I would suggest only adding a pinch of pepper instead of the whole amount.

pan of creamy butter chicken with rice, cilantro and naan

Other 30 minute Chicken Recipes
My Cajun Chicken Alfredo will become another favorite. It is full of delicious yet easy flavors.
Our Chicken Salad is a recipe you should double so you have leftovers to take to work the following day.
Just like with my butter chicken, these Chicken Lettuce Wraps have the taste of take out in the comfort and ease of your own home.
If you make any of these great chicken recipes, leave me a comment and let me know what you think!

Follow me on social for more recipe ideas & inspiration!
Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Newsletter
5 Secrets For Stress Free Dinners!
GET THE SECRETS!
chicken butter masala recipe in a bowl with rice and naan
4.90 from 68 votes
Butter Chicken Recipe
Serves: 4 people
(tap # to scale)
Prep: 10minutes minutes
Cook: 25minutes minutes
Total: 35minutes minutes
This Butter Chicken Recipe is so easy and so delicious. It's the perfect weeknight meal. Better than take out, you'll love making this Indian Butter Chicken at home!
print pin it rate
Ingredients

1 tablespoon olive oil
1 yellow onion diced small
1/4 cup unsalted butter
1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger
2 cloves garlic
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts diced into bit sized pieces
1 tablespoon garam masala read about garam masala here
1 teaspoon chili powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon black pepper
8 ounces tomato sauce
2 tablespoons tomato paste
2 teaspoons lemon juice
1/4 cup plain yogurt
1 cup half and half read about half and half here
Instructions

In a large skillet, heat extra virgin olive oil. Add diced onions to the pan and stir regularly, cooking until the onions are translucent, 5 to 7 minutes.
1 tablespoon olive oil,1 yellow onion
Add the butter and allow it to melt completely. Then stir in the ginger and garlic, cooking for about 30 seconds to a minute or until fragrant. Be careful not to burn it.
1/4 cup unsalted butter,1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger,2 cloves garlic
Add the chicken and cook, stirring often until the chicken is no longer pink on the outside, about 2 minutes. No need to cook it all the way through as it will continue cooking as you add the rest of the ingredients and simmer the recipe.
1 pound boneless skinless chicken breasts

Now stir in the garam masala, chili powder, salt and black pepper. Then pour in the tomato sauce, tomato paste, lemon juice, yogurt and half and half.  Stir to combine fully.  Bring to a simmer and cook for about 10 minutes to allow the sauce to reduce.
1 tablespoon garam masala,1 teaspoon chili powder,1/2 teaspoon salt,1/4 teaspoon black pepper,8 ounces tomato sauce,2 tablespoons tomato paste,2 teaspoons lemon juice,1/4 cup plain yogurt,1 cup half and half
The sauce will reduce but still be quite saucy. Serve with rice and naan.This Broccoli Pasta is a simple go to weeknight dinner that kids and adults can both agree on. It will become a regular in your dinner rotation.

close up overhead view of broccoli pasta recipe made with shells, broccoli florets, red pepper flakes and freshly grated parmesan cheese
Save this recipe
Enter your email address and we'll send it straight to your inbox.
Email Address
 
PIN THIS RECIPE FOR LATER!
MY LATEST VIDEOS


I have made it no secret with my dad that I don’t think his best quality is his cooking. Love you, Dad! (For the record, I think his best quality is his huge compassionate heart.) But! He has a few recipes up his sleeve that are winners.


This Broccoli Pasta recipe is one of those. This was a staple in my house growing up. I can remember standing next to my dad at the stove as he made this delicious easy vegetarian dinner. It’s like a big bowl of comfort.

I have a few friends who are raising vegetarian kiddos, and I beg them to give this dish a try. I think it’s something the whole family will love.

Simple Pasta Dinner
This easy dinner recipe only requires a few ingredients which is one of the things that makes it a winner.

Pasta – I like to go with shells, but you can use whatever you have
Broccoli
Garlic
Oil
Red Pepper Flakes
Parmesan Cheese

That’s it, my friends. You truly can’t beat simple dinners.

overhead view of pasta shells and broccoli in a bowl with parmesan cheese and red pepper flakes

The Cheese Matters
As my dad told me when passing off this great recipe, it is a simple recipe, which means you must pick your cheese carefully.

I urge you to grab a block of parmesan cheese and freshly grate your own for this recipe. It really can make the difference between you like and loving this recipe. And blocks of parmesan keep so well in the refrigerator for a while.

front view of a metal skillet holding easy broccoli pasta recipe with shells, broccoli, parmesan cheese, and red pepper flakes

How to Make Broccoli Pasta
Even though this is a simple recipe, there are a few key steps that I want to make note of.

Make sure to cook your pasta according to package instructions. This means bringing your water to a roaring boil before adding the dry noodles. And be sure to cook them only as long as the package suggests.
Remove 1/4 cup of cooking water before draining the noodles. That pasta water is starchy and is going to be perfect for helping cook the broccoli.
Heat oil in a skillet before adding any ingredients.
Be careful not to burn your garlic when you add it to the hot oil. You will only be cooking it for about 30 seconds before adding the broccoli.
Grab a cover for the pan. It helps steam the garlic and make it perfectly tender for this recipe.
If You Burn Your Garlic
Again, given the few number of ingredients, we want them to be perfect. If you should find that you did burn your garlic, all is not lost!

Just start over with new oil and fresh garlic. Also, be sure to clean the pan well before starting over so none of the burnt garlic taste remains.


overhead view of a metal skillet holding easy pasta recipe made with shells and broccoli

Multitasking
Like a lot of recipes, this one comes together quickly if you are able to multi task.

Because we are using pasta water for this, we need to wait until the pasta finishes cooking before we move on to sautéing the broccoli.

Do yourself a favor and start cooking the pasta right away before you prep any other ingredients. If you can get your pasta water boiling before you start gathering your ingredients, you will be ready to roll with the broccoli right when the pasta is done, making this a 26 minute recipe.

front view of a bowl of pasta shells with broccoli garnished with red pepper flakes and freshly grated parmesan cheese

Other Great Vegetarian Dinners
If you are eating less meat these days or if you are cooking for someone who is eating vegetarian, here are a few other great ideas:

My Black Bean Tacos are my favorite. They are so simple but absolutely delicious.

Even your meat eaters won’t miss the meat with this Southwestern Mac and Cheese. It’s total delicious comfort food.

My Greek Quinoa Salad makes a filling dinner and even better left overs.

If you make this Broccoli Pasta and love it, come back and let me know! And if you make any of my other recipes, I’d love to hear what you think.


Follow me on social for more recipe ideas & inspiration!
Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Newsletter
5 Secrets For Stress Free Dinners!
GET THE SECRETS!
close up overhead view of broccoli pasta recipe made with shells, broccoli florets, red pepper flakes and freshly grated parmesan cheese
4.96 from 49 votes
Broccoli Pasta
Serves: 4 servings
(tap # to scale)
Prep: 5minutes minutes
Cook: 21minutes minutes
Total: 26minutes minutes
This Broccoli Pasta is a simple go to weeknight dinner that kids and adults can both agree on. It will become a regular in your dinner rotation.
print pin it rate
Ingredients

1/2 pound pasta shells cooked according to package instructions, reserving 1/4 cup cooking water before draining
1 pound broccoli (3 small heads or 4 cups florets) cut into small florets
2 tablespoons olive oil
2 cloves minced garlic
1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup freshly grated parmesan cheese plus more for topping
Instructions
Cook the pasta according to the instructions on the package, reserving 1/4 cup of cooking water before draining.
While the water is coming to a boil, prepare the rest of the ingredients. Cut the broccoli, mince the garlic, and shred the cheese.
In a large skillet, heat the olive oil over high heat. Add garlic and red pepper flakes. Sauté for 30 seconds until the garlic is fragrant, being careful not to burn it.
Add the broccoli, pasta water, and a teaspoon of salt. Cook until the broccoli is tender, about 4 minutes.

Toss with the cooked pasta. Top with freshly grated parmesan cheese.This easy shrimp scampi recipe is the perfect pasta dinner that comes together in just about 30 minutes. Perfectly cooked shrimp is smothered in a garlic and butter shrimp scampi sauce. This is restaurant quality food at home!


Save this recipe
Enter your email address and we'll send it straight to your inbox.
Email Address
 
PIN THIS RECIPE FOR LATER!
MY LATEST VIDEOS


Sometimes simple recipes are the best. This isn’t an overly complicated recipe, but that doesn’t mean it is anything short of delicious.

Butter, lemon, wine, and pasta come together with shrimp pin this amazing dinner recipe to a perfect dish. This recipe is easy enough for a weeknight dinner, but delicious enough to serve guests.

Reader Review
OMG, what a great recipe. I made it with a good dry Chardonnay, my husband went bonkers. Thank you!

How to Make Shrimp Scampi
This is a brief overview of how easy it is to make this delicious garlic shrimp scampi. For the full recipe with all of the measurements, see the recipe card at the bottom of the post.

Cook the pasta. Cook angel hair pasta in a large pot of boiling water, making sure to salt the water and reserve pasta water before draining.
Start the sauce. Sauté garlic, shallots, and red pepper flakes in butter and oil.
Cook the shrimp. Season raw shrimp with salt and pepper. Cook them in the butter and oil just until they turn pink. Remove them from the pan.
Continue the sauce. Deglaze the pan with dry white wine, add in more butter and oil, and lemon juice.
Add the pasta to the sauce. Toss the pasta in the garlic butter sauce then add in fresh parsley. Add some of the reserved pasta water if it is too dry.
Finish it off. Top with the shrimp and grated fresh parmesan cheese.

overhead view of a skillet full of shrimp scampi topped with fresh parsley and freshly grated Parmesan cheese and garnished with lemon wedges

Reserving Pasta Water
You will notice that a key in this recipe is reserving the pasta water. Pasta water is full of delicious salty starchy taste. It can often be the perfect backbone to a simple sauce like this one.

Without this reserved pasta water, it is very easy for this recipe to feel dry. Make sure you do this crucial step!

Thawing Shrimp
This recipe calls for a pound of raw shrimp. It is often easiest (unless you are lucky enough to live by a coast) to buy frozen shrimp and thaw it before cooking.

I usually thaw my shrimp under cold running water for about 10 minutes before cooking. Make sure you follow the directions on the package when thawing your shrimp. The safest way to thaw it is in the refrigerator overnight.


Cooking Shrimp
Shrimp cooks very quickly. I used large shrimp for this recipe, so they cooked in about 6 minutes total with 3 minutes on each side. Because the size of shrimp does vary quite a bit, when making shrimp recipes it is more important to look at the shrimp rather than the clock.

As shrimp cook, they turn from gray to pink. They also begin to curl inward. You want to flip them and then remove them from the pan once they have just turned pink. Overcooked shrimp will really ruin this dish.

overhead view of a bowl of shrimp scampi garnished with lemon wedges, parsley, and parmesan cheese

Pasta for Shrimp Scampi
I think this recipe is best with angel hair pasta. That being said, you could also make it with fettuccine or spaghetti.

Cooking with Wine
Cooking with wine is such a simple way to elevate a dish. Here are a few tips for cooking with wine.

Buy a wine that you would drink. If you aren’t a wine drinker, ask for help! Just be sure to use a drinking wine, not a cooking wine.
Get a pack of four small bottles if you aren’t a drinker. You can buy small bottles of wine that are perfect for recipes like this. This way you don’t have to open a big bottle you won’t drink.
Check the type you need. This recipe calls for a dry white wine like a Chardonnay, Pinot Grigio, or Sauvignon Blanc. A sweet wine won’t work here.

Making this Recipe without Wine
If you are sober or if you are making this for someone who is, I encourage you to skip the wine. You can replace it with chicken broth and just a splash more lemon juice.

Fresh Parsley
I love the fresh parsley in this recipe. Be sure to follow the steps below to ensure that your parsley stays fresh.

Cut off the ends (about an inch or two) of the parsley bunch when you get home.
Place the parsley in a drinking glass with enough water to cover the ends by two inches.
Cover with the plastic grocery bag you got it in.
Store in the refrigerator for two to four weeks.

Spicness
This recipe has a kick to it! I love it and think it adds great flavor to this shrimp scampi dish. If your family can’t handle any heat then make these two changes:

Reduce the amount of black pepper to a pinch.
Reduce the red pepper flakes to 1/4 teaspoon.
side view of a skillet full of shrimp scampi with angel hair pasta

Other Great Pasta Dishes
If you can’t get enough of carb loading, you are not alone. Pasta is my love language, and here are a few more of my favorites:

Pasta Carbonara
Fettuccine Alfredo
Chicken Cacciatore
If you make my recipe for the best shrimp scampi or any of my other recipes, leave me a comment to let me know what you think.

Follow me on social for more recipe ideas & inspiration!
Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Newsletter
5 Secrets For Stress Free Dinners!
GET THE SECRETS!
side view of a skillet full of shrimp scampi with angel hair pasta
5 from 7 votes
Shrimp Scampi
Serves: 4 servings
(tap # to scale)
Prep: 10minutes minutes
Cook: 20minutes minutes
Total: 30minutes minutes
This Shrimp Scampi is the perfect easy pasta recipe that comes together in just about 30 minutes. It's delicious comfort food!
print pin it rate
Ingredients

16 ounces angel hair pasta (453.6 grams)
4 tablespoons butter (56.5 grams)
1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil (50 grams or 59.1 ml)
2 small shallots diced fine (about 1/2 a cup)
2 garlic cloves minced
1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes
1 pound shirmp peeled and deveined, and patted dry (453.6 grams)
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon black pepper
1/2 cup dry white wine read above for how to make this without wine (118.3 ml)
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1/4 cup fresh parsley for serving (12.8 gram)
fresh parmesan for serving
Instructions
Bring a large pot of water to a roaring boil. Add in 2 teaspoons of kosher salt. Add the angel hair pasta and cook according to the package instructions. Just before draining the pasta, reserve 1/2 cup of the starchy pasta water.
16 ounces angel hair pasta

While the pasta is cooking, melt 2 tablespoons of butter with 2 tablespoons of olive oil. Add the garlic, shallots, and red pepper flakes. Cook until the shallots are transluncent, about 3 to 4 minutes.
4 tablespoons butter,1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil,2 small shallots,2 garlic cloves,1/2 teaspoon red pepper flakes
Season the shrimp with salt and pepper and add to the pan. Cook until they have just turned pink, about 1 to 2 minutes, then flipped and 1 to 2 more minutes on the other side. Be careful not to over cook the shrimp. Transfer the shrimp to a plate and set aside.
1 pound shirmp,1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt,1/4 teaspoon black pepper
Add the wine to the pan and scrape up the brown bits. Bring to a boil. Add in the remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil and butter. Once melted, remove the skillet from the heat and toss in the shrimp, pasta, and lemon juice. Add enough reserved pasta water to thin out the sauce.
4 tablespoons butter,1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil,1/2 cup dry white wine,2 tablespoons lemon juice
Add in the fresh parsley and parmesan cheese, serve and enjoy!
1/4 cup fresh parsley,fresh parmesanThis Cajun Shrimp Pasta is going to be your new favorite weeknight night meal! This easy 30 minute meal will win you over with perfect cajun seasoning and the best cream sauce.

overhead of skillet of Cajun Shrimp Pasta ingredients on a cooling rack with toasted bread sitting beside
Save this recipe
Enter your email address and we'll send it straight to your inbox.
Email Address
 
PIN THIS RECIPE FOR LATER!
MY LATEST VIDEOS
Ad ends in 2


My very favorite types of meals to make for you are the ones that taste like you ordered them at a restaurant, but they come together in 30 minutes. This delicious recipe, based off of my Creamy Cajun Chicken Pasta, is one you are sure to love.

READER REVIEW
My family absolutely loved this recipe. Even my finicky eaters.


How to Make Cajun Shrimp Pasta
This is a brief overview of how to make this delicious dinner recipe. For the full recipe with all of the measurements, see the recipe card at the bottom of the post.

Make the pasta. It’s best to start boiling the water right away and then multi-task and start the rest of the recipe. See all my tips on making pasta below.
Prepare the shrimp. Toss the shrimp with cajun seasoning and olive oil.
Sauté the shrimp until cooked through. This will take about three minutes on each side. Remove the shrimp from the skillet and then give it a quick rinse so the residual cajun seasoning doesn’t burn.
Make the cream sauce. Melt the butter and add in the garlic, making sure not to burn it. Whisk in the flour, making a roux. Very slowly add the heavy cream. Finally, melt in some cheese and add some more cajun seasoning.
Finish off the dish. Toss in the cooked pasta and return the shrimp to the pan. Top with freshly diced tomatoes and parsley.
Cooking Pasta
While it may seem like the easiest thing in the world, there are a few tips that make pasta turn out perfectly every time.

Make sure you use enough water. There should be ample room for the pasta to cook and expand.
Bring the pasta to a roaring boil. You want to see big giant bubbles before you add the dry pasta.
Add salt to the water. I like adding about one teaspoon of kosher salt for every pound of pasta that I’m boiling.
Set a timer. There is nothing worse than overcooked pasta. I like to set a timer so that my pasta is perfectly al dente – cooked but with a little bite still left to it.

Using Frozen Shrimp
I love keeping frozen shrimp on hand. It is great in so many recipes and makes this a meal you can make last minute. If you are lucky and live near the sea, you can absolutely use fresh shrimp in this recipe. For frozen, follow the package instructions for thawing the shrimp or thaw it in your refrigerator overnight.

plate of Cajun Shrimp Pasta with glass of white wine and garlic bread sitting beside

Cajun Seasoning Recipe
This Cajun Seasoning Recipe is a delicious and easy spice mixture that is perfect for dozens of recipes! Make a little bit for one recipe or a big batch to keep with your spices.
view recipe 

Cajun Seasoning
What makes this dish flavorful and perfect is the Cajun Seasoning. As mentioned above, I love using my own because I can control everything that goes in it. My recipe has instructions to make a large amount or just enough for one recipe.

In my cajun seasoning post, I go into detail on why I use each spice and how you can control the flavor of it by making your own. That said, don’t skip making this because you don’t have time to throw together the seasoning. You can use store-bought seasoning and still love this!


How to Make a Roux
The thing that makes this dish creamy is the roux. A roux is the combination of a fat, such as butter here, and flour. The fat coats the flour, and helps keep it suspended in the sauce, preventing the sauce from separating. The trick is to add the liquid to the roux slowly. I like adding just a few tablespoons at a time in the beginning. I wait to add more until what I have just added is absorbed.

skillet of Cajun Shrimp Pasta ingredients

Half and Half
The backbone of the sauce is half and half. In the UK, this is known as half cream. It is essentially half heavy cream and half whole milk. In fact, if you can’t find it, you can combine those two to replace it.

Shredding Cheese
One of the key components of that creamy sauce you are making is the Parmesan cheese. It adds creaminess, flavor, and perfection. I highly encourage you to shred your own cheese. Pre-shredded cheese is coated in preservatives which make it difficult for it to melt. It is absolutely worth your time to shred your own.

Storing Leftovers
Leftovers of this recipe can be stored in the refrigerator for up to four days. My husband and I actually love cold leftovers of this almost more than the original. If you’d like your leftovers warmed up, add them to a skillet with a little cream over low heat, stirring often until everything is warmed through.


Plate of Cajun Shrimp Pasta

What to Serve with Cajun Shrimp Pasta
This is a great filling dish, but if you are looking to squeeze in some vegetables, here are a few ideas:

My kids always love Parmesan Roasted Broccoli!
This Chopped Salad is so easy and would go great with this dinner.
Garlic Bread goes amazing with this recipe.
If you make this Creamy Cajun Shrimp Pasta or any of my other recipes leave me a comment and let me know what you think!

Follow me on social for more recipe ideas & inspiration!
Instagram
Facebook
Youtube
Newsletter
5 Secrets For Stress Free Dinners!
GET THE SECRETS!
overhead of skillet of Cajun Shrimp Pasta ingredients on a cooling rack with toasted bread sitting beside
4.82 from 22 votes
Creamy Cajun Shrimp Pasta Recipe
Serves: 4 people
(tap # to scale)
Prep: 10minutes minutes
Cook: 20minutes minutes
Total: 30minutes minutes
This Cajun Shrimp Pasta is going to be your new favorite weeknight night meal! This easy 30 minute meal will win you over with perfect cajun seasoning and the best cream sauce.
print pin it rate
Ingredients

1 pound raw shrimp (453.592 grams) thawed and deveined
8 ounces penne pasta (100 grams) cooked according to to package instructions
3 tablespoons olive oil divided
3 tablespoons cajun seasoning divided
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 cloves garlic minced
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 1/2 cups half and half (354.882 ml) read more about half and half here
1/3 cup Parmesan cheese (33 grams) shredded
salt and pepper to taste
diced tomatoes optional
fresh parsley optional
Instructions
Cook the pasta according to package instructions. When finished, drain and rinse with cold water. Set aside.
While the pasta is cooking, in a bowl combine the shrimp, 2 tablespoons olive oil, and 2 tablespoons cajun seasoning. Toss to coat.

In a large skillet over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon olive oil, add the shrimp, and cook until pink and cooked through, about 3 minutes on each side. Remove the shrimp and set aside.
In a clean skillet over medium heat, melt the butter. Add the minced garlic and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds, being careful not to burn it.
Whisk in the flour. Very slowly, whisk in the half and half. You want to just whisk in a small bit at a time, so that you can create a roux. I like to eyeball about 2 tablespoons at a time, only adding more half and half after what you just added is absorbed, going quicker the more you add.
Once you have whisked in all of the half and half, stir in the parmesan cheese, melting it to combine. Then stir in the remaining 1 tablespoon cajun seasoning. Add salt and pepper to taste.
Stir in the pasta and return the shrimp to the pan. Serve with diced tomatoes and fresh parsley.Sheet Pan Pancakes are the perfect easy weekend breakfast. Your family will love these fluffy pancakes made in your oven.

Overhead view of Sheet Pan Pancakes garnished with bananas, strawberries, blueberries, and chocolate chips in quadrants. Cup of coffee and berries beside.
Save this recipe
Enter your email address and we'll send it straight to your inbox.
Email Address
 
PIN THIS RECIPE FOR LATER!
MY LATEST VIDEOS
Ad ends in 22


My family is obsessed with weekend pancakes. I love them, but I don’t always love standing at the stove or over a hot griddle flipping pancakes. But this sheet pan pancake recipe is the perfect solution. It comes together with easy ingredients and bakes up in the oven in just 15 minutes!

Overhead view of ingredients on counter for Sheet Pan Pancakes recipe.

How to Make Sheet Pan Pancakes
Here is a brief overview of how this recipe for sheet pan pancakes comes together. For the full recipe including all measurements, scroll to the recipe card at the bottom of the post.

Combine dry ingredients. Whisk together the flour, sugar, brown sugar, baking soda, and salt in a large mixing bowl. 
Mix wet ingredients. In a medium bowl whisk together buttermilk, butter, eggs, and vanilla extract until well combined.
Combine wet and dry ingredients. Fold the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients until just combined. Pour the pancake batter into a well-greased rimmed baking sheet. Add in any toppings you’d like, such as chocolate chips, blueberries, strawberries, or bananas. 
Bake the pancakes. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes or until the pancake is golden brown and a toothpick in the center comes out with just a few crumbs. Cut and enjoy!
Overhead view of glass mixing bowl of dry ingredients for Sheet Pan Pancakes recipe with whisk beside.
Overhead view of batter for Sheet Pan Pancakes recipe in a glass mixing bowl with whisk.

Buttermilk Alternative
Buttermilk gives the pancakes their signature flavor and light, fluffy texture. If you don’t keep buttermilk on hand in your fridge, you can easily make a substitute with two simple ingredients. Combine milk with vinegar or lemon juice and let it sit for five minutes. This will result in a thickened, tangy milk similar to buttermilk that works perfectly in pancakes.

How to Make Buttermilk
If you don’t regularly buy buttermilk, you will find that homemade buttermilk is easy to make. In this tutorial on how to make buttermilk, you will see how this recipe works as the perfect replacement.
view recipe 
Glass bottle of Homemade Buttermilk sitting on a wooden board

Photo of mixing bowl of wet ingredients being poured into mixing bowl of dry ingredients for batter of Sheet Pan Pancakes recipe.
 TOP PICK
The Best Rimmed Baking Sheets
These rimmed baking sheets are the best. They get used almost daily in my kitchen and hold up so well!
Get On Amazon
Product Image
Tips and Tricks
Use fresh baking soda. For it to be active, baking soda must be replaced every six months. To test the freshness of your baking soda, mix a little bit with some vinegar. it should bubble up right away. If it doesn’t, toss it and get new. Be sure to use baking soda and NOT baking powder in this recipe.
Measure the flour correctly. Getting too much or too little flour in any baking recipe will change how it turns out. Follow my steps for measuring flour correctly in the link in the box below.
Allow your melted butter to cool. If you add it to the pancake batter when it is really hot, it will start cooking the other ingredients.
How to Measure Flour
This guide on how to measure flour will ensure that each of your baking recipes turns out fantastic regardless of whether or not you own a kitchen scale.
view recipe 
Person's hands leveling off measuring cup of flour with handle of spatula over container of flour with whisk beside for How to Measure Flour


Sheet Pan Pancakes From Mix
I always keep my pancake mix on hand. If you want to use a pancake mix to make sheet pan pancakes, the flavor will be slightly different than the recipe listed on the recipe card, but would still be delicious. Use 2 1/4 cups of my homemade pancake mix in place of the flour, sugar, brown sugar, baking soda, and salt, and follow the rest of the recipe as written.

Pancake Mix
Pancake Mix is so easy to throw together. Just four pantry ingredients, and with my instructions for adding milk, oil, and eggs, you will have fluffy pancakes whenever you want!
view recipe 
Container of homemade pancake mix. Eggs, whisk, and towel sitting beside.

How to Serve
You can add toppings to your pancakes before or after baking. Fresh or frozen blueberries, raspberries, diced strawberries, banana slices, or chocolate chips would all be delicious. Cut the big sheet pan pancake into squares for easy portions. Enjoy plain or serve with maple syrup, strawberry syrup, peanut butter, or a dollop of whipped cream.

Storing and Reheating Leftovers
Leftover pancakes can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to three days. You can enjoy them cold or warmed up in the microwave or toaster.

Overhead view of Sheet Pan Pancakes garnished with chocolate chips, blueberries, strawberries, and bananas. Banana square cut out and sitting on serving spatula on baking sheet. Coffee and berries beside.
What to Serve with Pancakes
Ham and Cheese Egg Muffins
Air Fryer Bacon
Cherry Smoothie
If you make this sheet pan pancake recipe or any of my other recipes, leave a comment and let me know what you think!How to Make a Cherry Smoothie
This is a brief overview of how to make this delicious smoothie. For the full recipe with all of the measurements, see the recipe card at the bottom of the post.

Combine all of the ingredients in a blender.
Blend until smooth. If your smoothie happens to be too thick, you can use a little milk to thin it out.
cherry smoothie being poured into a glass from a blender

 TOP PICK
Ninja Blender Set
We use this blender set so much! Each attachment comes in handy and gets so much use in our kitchen.
Get On Amazon
Product Image
Frozen Cherries
I think frozen cherries are the right choice for this smoothie, and let me explain why. They are more affordable than fresh cherries. Frozen cherries are already pitted. Finally, because they are frozen, they are going to make the smoothie thicker without adding ice that dilutes it.

Sweet or Tart Cherries
For this recipe, I would recommend using sweet cherries. You can see in the picture they are the darker cherries that you see when you are looking at frozen cherries. The alternative is usually a bright red cherry that is fairly tart. These darker, sweeter cherries allow you to make the smoothie without adding any other kind of sweetness like honey or agave nectar because they bring so much sweetness on their own.


a glass of an easy cherry smoothie with two stemmed cherries on top and paper straws sticking out
Variations and Substitutions
Use a heavy protein yogurt. By using a yogurt with high protein, this will help keep you full longer. There is a wide range of yogurts on the market, and many have upwards of 15 grams of protein per container.
Add in some protein powder. If your preferred type of yogurt isn’t high enough in protein, throw in a scoop or two of protein powder. Using a vanilla protein powder will compliment this smoothie perfectly.
Make it vegan. This smoothie can easily be made dairy-free by using a non-dairy yogurt. There are so many great brands on the market these days making this a really easy swap.
Throw in a banana. Bananas and cherries go together so well, and a banana will help bulk out this smoothie further. Since we are using frozen cherries, I suggest using a non-frozen banana.
Leave out the almond extract. If you are making this for someone with a nut allergy, just leave out the almond extract. I love how it compliments the cherries, but it isn’t necessary to enjoy this delicious smoothie.
This simple take on Chicken Taquitos is an easy dinner idea to make at home. With just a few basic ingredients you have a great dinner or appetizer that everyone from kids to adults will love.

Photo of Chicken Taquitos stacked on top of each other
Save this recipe
Enter your email address and we'll send it straight to your inbox.
Email Address
 
PIN THIS RECIPE FOR LATER!
MY LATEST VIDEOS
Ad ends in 10


I’m not sure if there is anything better than an appetizer recipe that can double as a dinner recipe. That is exactly what we have with this Chicken Taquito recipe. It is easy enough to make for dinner, but would also make a fabulous party snack. It has just the right balance of seasoning, chicken, and cheese and they bake up right in your oven!

Though traditionally a taquito is deep fried. In this recipe, we are swapping the deep frying for baking in the oven to lighten things up. It also makes this a much easier recipe, but they are just as delicious.


Overhead view of glass bowls of ingredients and tortillas on counter for Chicken Taquitos recipe.
How to Make Taquitos
Here is a brief overview of how this chicken and cheese taquitos recipe comes together. Be sure to check out the recipe card at the bottom of the post for the full recipe, including all ingredients and their measurements.

Make the filling. Add the shredded chicken, taco seasoning, green chiles, cream cheese, and shredded cheese in a large bowl and stir to combine.
Warm the corn tortillas. We have a great trick for this below. It really helps the tortillas roll without breaking.
Fill the tortillas. Add a little bit of the chicken mixture to the tortillas, and then secure them closed with a toothpick.
Bake the taquitos. Spray the tortillas lightly with oil or brush them with oil. Then bake them on a wire rack so that all sides of the taquito crisp up nicely. Enjoy!

Overhead view of glass mixing bowl of ingredients for Chicken Taquitos recipe.
Chicken Taquito Filling
Our taquito filling is so simple. We are using shredded chicken, taco seasoning, green chiles, and cheese. Be sure to scroll to the bottom of the post for the full ingredient amounts and the instructions.

Shredded chicken: We love using frozen shredded chicken in this recipe. This way we always have cooked chicken on hand and we can skip the step of cooking it. Take two cups out the night before you plan on making this and it will be thawed in your refrigerator by morning. You could also use a rotisserie chicken.
Cheddar cheese: Cheddar is perfect in this recipe but you could also use any cheese that your family is a big fan of. Monterey Jack cheese would also melt really well here. Just be sure to shred it from the block rather than buying it pre-shredded so it melts better.
Cream cheese: Adds a creaminess to the taquito filling.
Salsa: Make this easy Blender Salsa or use whatever your favorite is.
Green chiles: The green chiles in this recipe add another great layer of flavor. If you buy the mild kind, they bring the flavor without the heat. Make sure to not drain the chiles.
Taco seasoning: A little goes a long way here, so we opted to use only one tablespoon. We love using our homemade taco seasoning for this recipe. Having a big batch on hand allows us to pull out just a small amount that is needed here. Made with chili powder, paprika, salt, onion powder, garlic powder, cumin, and cayenne pepper, we always have what we need on hand to make this.

Homemade Taco Seasoning
This Homemade Taco Seasoning comes together fast with measurements for one pound of meat or for a whole container to keep in your pantry!
view recipe 
bottle of spice jar with homemade taco seasoning
How to Heat Corn Tortillas
Corn tortillas are wonderful, but they can be tricky to roll without breaking. In my Chicken Enchilada recipe, we dip them in Enchilada Sauce first, but that won’t work for these baked chicken taquitos.

Get a paper towel wet and then ring it out so it is just damp.
Wrap the tortillas in the paper towel.
Put the wrapped tortillas in a plastic ziplock bag with one inch of the bag not sealed. The bag needs to be microwave-safe.
Pop the bag in the microwave for one minute to steam the tortillas. Be very careful when you take them out because they will be pipping hot. But they will then roll without cracking.
Most corn tortillas are naturally gluten-free, which means this recipe is gluten-free. That being said, always double-check the ingredients you purchase before making a recipe for someone with a gluten allergy.

Overhead view of baking sheet with wire rack of Chicken Taquitos in progress. Bowl of Chicken Taquitos filler beside for recipe.
Rolling Up Chicken Taquitos
After you have the filling made and the tortillas warmed, it’s time to construct the taquitos. Place about 2 tablespoons of filling in the center of each corn tortilla. Roll them up and place them seam side down on a greased cooling rack inside a rimmed baking sheet lined with foil.

Before baking, spray the chicken taquitos with cooking spray to help them lightly crisp up. This will take the place of the deep frying. While they won’t crisp up as much as frying, they will be delicious.


Overhead view of a baking sheet with a wire rack with Chicken Taquitos ready for baking.
Taquito Toppings
These chicken and cheese taquitos can be enjoyed as is, or you can add some toppings. Here are a few ideas.

Sour cream
Guacamole
Pico de Gallo (or more salsa)
Chopped cilantro
Lime wedges
Storing and Reheating Leftovers
Because of how fragile the corn tortillas are, I recommend baking them shortly after constructing them. That being said, once they are baked, these do reheat very well and are even delicious cold. Store any leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to three days. I love to reheat leftover taquitos in the air fryer, but you can also reheat them in the microwave or oven. Reheat only the portion you plan to eat. Remember, leftovers should never be reheated more than once.


Freezing Taquitos
These freeze very well and then can be pulled out of the oven individually or as a bunch and reheated. To freeze them, place the baked taquitos on a plate lined with wax or parchment paper. Place in the freezer for four hours. Transfer to an air-tight container and store for up to three months.

When you are ready to eat them, bake the frozen taquitos at 400 degrees Fahrenheit for 15 to 20 minutes.

Overhead view of a plate of Chicken Taquitos on a bed of shredded lettuce, garnished with pico de gallo, lime wedges, and cilantro. Lime wedges, pico de Gallo, and guacamole beside plate.

What to Serve with Homemade Chicken Taquitos
My Spanish Rice recipe is easy to whip up while the taquitos are baking, and would pair perfectly with these.
My Corn Salsa is so hearty it can actually double as a side salad.
These Instant Pot Pinto Beans can be made into refried beans and make a delicious and filling side.
Finally, my Cilantro Lime Rice is so delicious and easy to make. It is always a win.
If you make this Chicken Taquito recipe or any of my other recipes, please leave me a comment and let me know what you think!

